# City of Denton Datasets
Issue tracker for City of Denton Datasets

## Purpose
This repo is meant to provide a collaborative way to assess and discuss the new datasets provided by the city of Denton. Using the built in CKAN API on their platform ([data.cityofdenton.com](data.cityofdenton.com)), we autogenerated issues for each dataset available. This gives us the ability to sort, discuss, and report back findings to the city technical staff on these datasets, not just to improve them for Open Data Day, but for all future open data purposes as well.

Inside each issue you will see some basic data about the dataset, a link to the dataset on the website, and a summary of the resources for each dataset.

## Expected of Each Data Set

Each data set should be usable in a database, and should have variables with which the data set can be merged with other data sets. Barring that, the data should be geocoded (tagged with geographic positioning data, such as latitude and longitude, or state plane coordinates). 

To ensure these data are useful without additional munging, the following should be true:

* Can be imported into any of the usual RDBMSes (MySQL/MariaDB, PostgreSQL, FileMaker Pro, MS Access). Practically, this means: 
  * the columns are delimited consistently or (less desirable) column separated correctly
  * variable types aren't mixed within columns (no text in integer columns, etc.)
  * Text strings are quoted (but this isn't strictly required, provided the text isn't comma-separated)
  * Ideally, there is exactly one header row, but it's reasonable for some datasets to have two-line records OR lack any header row, provided there is a correct codebook

* Has a unique identifier or a combination of columns that can be assembled into a unique identifier (day/date/month, e.g.)

* Ideally, there is an import file or files for commonly available databases and/or stats packages like R, Stata, PostgreSQL, and MySQL/MariaDB

* Has a codebook describing each data variable (field), variable type, and, where needed, column width

* The user/committer has actually imported the data and confirmed that it worked without errors

* If the data are geocoded, they should be easy to import into [QGIS](http://qgis.org) and/or [ArcGIS](http://www.esri.com/), either directly or by merging with an existing GIS coverage

## What's Missing? Is It Useful?

It's possible that the data are usable but less useful than they could be, if, for instance, the data were in a different format, or if they contained an additional variable or level of analysis. A "wish list" for *reasonable* changes or upgrades is also potentially useful for the data catalog, moving forward.


Additionally, a measure of usability is valuable. Please tag each data set with "usable", "unusable", "needs repair", etc.

## Issue / Data fetching script
If you want to play around, or even use this data script for something else, you can clone the repo and use composer to install the dependencies.

`$ git clone git@github.com:OpenDenton/City-of-Denton-Datasets.git`

If you don't have composer installed, [download that first](https://getcomposer.org/download/).

`$ brew install composer`

or

`$ curl -s http://getcomposer.org/installer | php`

Then install the dependencies from the root of the repository.

```
$ composer install
```

From here, you'll need to [generate a new Github token](https://github.com/settings/tokens), and replace the demo token in the script.

`$token = 'NEW TOKEN HERE'`;
